Hey friends, this is Scott.
I want you to know
how much I appreciate you
as listeners. And I hope
you appreciate my sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Raygun provides full stack error,
crash, and performance monitoring for
tech teams. Whether you're a
software engineer looking to diagnose
and resolve issues with greater
speed and accuracy or a
product manager drowning in bug
reports, or maybe you're just
concerned. You're losing customers to
poor quality online experiences. Raygun
can provide you with the
answers, get full stack error
and performance monitoring in one
place. The next time you're
struggling to replicate errors and
performance issues and your code
base think Raygun head over
to raygun.com. That's R a
Y G U n.com and
get up and running within
minutes and dramatically improve your
online experiences of your users.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And today I'm
talking with Laura, Frank. She
is the director of engineering
at CloudBees. How are you?
Hey, Scott. I'm doing really
well. How are you doing?
I'm doing okay. I'm excited
to talk to you because
you have expertise in containers
that goes back kind of
to the beginning. Like, were
you there when Docker was
brought out, announced To the
days of yore? Yeah, I
started using Docker in 2013,
which is, it really was
just like a couple months
after Solomon made the, I
guess, announcement or shared the
project at pike con during
that like very famous lightning
talk, the most famous lightning
talk that ever was. So
I remember very distinctly. I
was working, working at HP
at the time, working on
HP cloud back when they
have HP cloud public cloud
and someone shared the link
of the talk and our
IRC channel and thought like,
Oh, this thing sounds pretty
cool. And I was like,
does sound pretty cool. And
from there, you know, X,
X, Y, Z happened, we
had a, a mutual colleague
that ended up going to
century link to start a
team in the labs department
to do research and development.
The topic was Docker and
like a bunch of us
from, from HP went over
there to start working on
developer tools. So it happened
really, really quick, but yeah,
I've been very, I've been
steeped in the container world
since, since about 2013. Is
that one of those things
where you see a technology,
you hear about a new
project and you're like, Oh
yeah, I need to be
all over that. And then
you just jump in or
were you already in, in
satellite projects or things in
the area around it? Yeah,
I was in the developer
tool space. I was working
on the infrastructure team at
HP cloud. So it was
very much into the, you
know, cloud migration story tools
that made it easier for
developers to start doing work
in the cloud things that
made developers more productive. So
it was in sort of
a adjacent space. The one
interesting thing about me though,
is that I'm really boring
and I don't, don't love
risks. I grew up in
the Midwest, my dad's a
mechanic, you know, financial stability.
Wasn't, wasn't really something that
I had a lot of
when I was not, not
necessarily not when I was
young, but when I was
in college, like putting myself
through school, the idea of
joining a startup or working
on a very early project
with a lot of risk
involved is just not my
cup of tea, but I
don't know there was something,
something about it that made
me feel very confident and
safe about the future. So
I just, I just kind
of went with it. I
really trusted my colleagues as
well. And I knew that,
that we could build something
cool with the project and
we ended up doing quite
a bit of cool stuff
and I'm still here. So
Yeah, it sounds like it
was a big bet, but
it's a bet that paid
off. It did. Yeah. I
wish I could, you know,
that question, like, if you
could tell your past self
something, I would be like,
listen, it's going to be
fine. And are you, you're
still a member of the
mobi projects, technical steering committee.
I am, yeah, I've been,
I was elected. I think
this was probably about a
year ago. The elections were
in it's a two, a
two year term. So I'm,
I'm happily sitting on the
technical steering committee for Moby
project. I'm a member of
the Docker captains group. So
this is a group that
this dates all the way
back to 2015. I think
we were kind of formally
announced at DockerCon EU in
Barcelona, which dr. Connie will
be in Barcelona this year
again, which is pretty cool.
It was sort of an
aggregate group of people who
were doing a lot of
blogging, speaking community, organizing people
who had sort of stepped,
stepped up and had a
bit of a loud voice
around Docker using Docker or
different things you could do
with Docker. So I'm really
happy to be part of
that group as well. And
the, the people that I've
been able to meet or
help get started with containers
has been really rewarding. There,
could you Detangle the names
a little bit for a
second? Like when I see
the Docker icon, it's a,
it's like a, it's a
whale, right? So is that
Moby Dick? Is that meant
to imply? It's like Moby,
but he's got containers on
his back. So he's like
a ship. Yeah. He's so
that's mobi, his, his name
is not Moby Dick. It's
going to be doc Moby
doc. That's actually awesome. I
did not know that I'm
a counterpart as well. I
can't decide if it's a
wife or a sister or
maybe just a coincidence that
they have the same last
name, but her name is
Molly dock. And what is
okay, is this, is, this
was like for another project.
She's just, she's just there.
I think I'm not sure
if people, anyone who is
not like really, really deep
into the Docker world or
hasn't attended to Docker con
knows. I think, I think
mobi just like being blue
and like being, I think
he's just like very cool.
So, so it's nice. Like
it's nice to have a
girl whale as well. Okay.
So the Moby project is
like, what's the difference between
Moby and Docker though? Like
Chrome is to chromium as
Docker is to mobi. I'm
so glad you asked. So
this was, this was announced
in Austin, the foundation of
the Moby project. And it,
I think it just wasn't
announced very well. And there
were lots of cleanup tasks,
I should say, like PR
tasks afterwards to kind of
detangle it. So I'm glad
we can talk about it
here. So Docker inc is
a corporation that sells Docker
the product. And then for
a long time, there was
github.com/docker and Docker was an
open source project behind the
product that Docker inc sold.
So there was just this
natural cloud, like clashing interests,
I guess, because the open
source, you know, let's say
for example, Microsoft is a
huge contributor to the Docker
old, the days of your
Docker opensource project, which they
were like, maybe Microsoft wants
to productize some of it.
And then they're pushing, or
even Docker inc wants to,
you know, they're productizing it.
And then they pushed up
into the open source project.
So it's just a conflict
of interest to solve that
problem. And to make it
really clear that Docker inc
is a company with corporate
interests and that there are
open source components that are
kind of going into going
into the product, everything that's
open source and that's like
a builder or a plumber
component is now in the
Moby project. That's stuff like
container D the runtime, all
of those low-level components to
that are kind of consumed
by the upstream or I
guess, downstream Docker product. Okay.
So let me see if
I understand this then. So,
so mobi has this library
of backend components, like all
the different, like backend containerized
stuff, networking and volume management
and logging and stuff. And
then there's a framework to
assemble all of that and
deploy and test those artifacts.
Yeah. But in all of
that, the collision of those
things are Docker. Okay. Could
I go and take Moby
and turn into like Scott
Docker and sell it? Totally.
If I, if I was
clever. Yeah. You taught, if
you had a bunch of
time on your hands and
a couple of red bulls,
you, you totally could. So
it's just a, it's just
a matter it's typing. It's
all it is. It's just,
if you have an attorney
to type it out, then
I should tell my, I
should tell my kids that
like, I want to be
a programmer. It's just typing.
It's not a big deal.
Okay. So then what is
kit? Yeah. Linux kit is
really interesting project. So Linux
kit is like, I'm trying
to think of how I
can explain this. It's sort
of like making your own
operating system or making your
own distribution of Linux, but
like all in containers. Well,
so the reason I, the
reason I ask is that
there's all these Linuxes right.
And like, I'm running windows
10, but I felt like
for Lennox's that I run
on it. And you know,
every once in a while
I'll call some native API
and I'll get like, Oh,
you're missing lib, blah, blah,
blah. You know, you dummy
go get lib, blah, blah,
blah. And then it's a
whole thing. And there's this
whole dance of like, does
my app support the APIs
at the native level that
I, that my app needs.
And then sometimes I'll go
and put together a Docker
container for my app and
it'll be like, Oh, it's
800 megs. You're an idiot.
And then I'll do it
again. And it's like, Oh,
it's 40 megs. You're a
genius. And I have no
idea like what happened. And
I really just want to
know how do I ship
the smallest Linux that does
just the functions of my
app call. Yep. Lennox gets
a great project to appear
in to, to, to solve
that specific problem. So the,
the kind of premise, and
I guess the, like the
tagline kind of description for
Linux kit is you basically
building your own destroyed Linux
specifically for whatever workload that
you're going to run on
top of it. So I
think that's kind of a
general struggle in the container
world and kind of there's
like, you know, on one
end containers are really appealing
to people because there's this
promise of like cut out
all the fat only have
what you need to run.
Your application. Dependency management is
great. Everything is super tiny.
There's, you know, optimization of
images, optimize your Docker file,
optimize everything. So that it's
the smallest, small, small thing.
On the other hand, there's
like developer productivity and wanting
to make kind of like
the silver bullet image that
will do pretty much anything
that the consumer, the developer
on the other end wants
to do. There's really not
a way to make those
types of images, super, super
tiny and strip away everything.
Cause you never, you can't
really predict the use case
of whoever might be consuming
it. So for those people
that are really concerned about
running the absolute smallest thing,
I'm getting really, really deep
down into the plumbing stuff.
That's what LA Linux kit,
as a project for you,
if you're interested in running
containers as a, maybe as
a developer use case, or
just like to help you
in your daily work, or
even if you're running them
in production, it might not
be, I think it's a
cool project to look into,
but it might not be
like immediately actionable for, for
that particular use case. Okay.
So I'm hearing that, you
know, if my app works
great on a boon to,
or on Alpine and you
know, I don't have the
patience or the interest to
go and dig into Linux,
that's okay. Like I shouldn't
feel bad. Yeah. You shouldn't
feel bad. I think, you
know, even in my circle
and I'm pretty into the,
like the container power user,
I only know personally a
handful of people that even
experiment with Linux kit. And
I don't mean to make
it sound like not approachable,
but it is like a,
it's a building block and
kind of like a underground
plumbing sort of tool. It's
not it's, I think there's
a very small subset of
developers that are working on
problems that are well solved
by Lennox. Get, I think
Docker, the people who work
at Docker are great examples
of those kinds of people
working in that space. But
for a lot of us,
even when I was, I'm
now at director level don't
code day to day necessarily
anymore. But even when I
was coding a lot using
Docker a lot, I probably
wouldn't have touched Linux get
very frequently. It's good to
know that it exists. And
maybe if I were an
engineering person at Netflix, I'd
make like Netflix OSS and
it would be like just
the perfect little Linux for
Netflix and we'd all use
it. But the average Joe
and Jane do not need
to worry about that. So
that's good to know. Yeah.
My final thought about Moby
project and like these plumber
components, I think it's easy
if you are a developer,
like getting started with Docker
or maybe you're even using
it every day and you
see all these like really
cool projects coming out of
Moby, like build kit, Linux,
kit, infer kit, and it
can kind of cause you
shame maybe to think like,
Oh, I'm not using them.
Am I not like, am
I not smart? Or, you
know, what's, is this for
me? Is this not for
me? Am I not a
great developer? Like, no, you're,
you're great. These are really
low level components and they're
not, don't feel bad if
it's not something that you're
touching every day. Like you're
doing fine. Yeah. I think
we appreciate that because there's
a lot of, there's a
lot of words and there's
a lot of nouns that
are being turned into project
names. And if you hear
about a noun and you're
like, Oh no, I have
to learn that now. Now,
too. I just learned this
other noun. It can be
a little bit overwhelming. It's
so hard to know what
to pay attention to. I
think in this, particularly in
this space, like the cloud
native space, the container space,
it's like, you know, I
think JavaScript has a bad
reputation of, you know, there's
something shiny every day. That's
like, I think a bit
unfair because there's lots of
that happens everywhere, regardless of
what language or what, what,
how deep in the stack
you are. So it's certainly
happening in the container space,
super low level. There's often
a bunch of new shiny
stuff all the time. It's
easy to get distracted or
not quite know where to
focus. So Docker was released
for the first time, like
you said, in March of
2013. So even though it
took over the world, it's
only five years old, which
is crazy. It's a baby.
Yeah, exactly. Like my, you
know, I had a five
year old and you know,
his whole brain wasn't even
to the rest of his
body, even now he's 12
and he's still like marginally
fun. It's still not attached
a couple of years. Yeah.
When he's in his twenties.
So, but you, you, the
way people talk about Docker,
you would think it like
invented the container. Yeah, totally
did not. Yeah. I think
that's, I think back to
one of the first talks
that I gave, or maybe
even like the first large
conference talk that I gave
was Ruby comp 2014 about
using like how to develop
a rails application in Docker
or with Docker and my
first slide or maybe my
second slide after the like,
hi, my name is Laura
slide was doc. A Docker
is not a container and
Docker didn't invent containers. They
never had, you know, the
narrative might change, but they
still won't have invented containers.
Containers have been around components
of containerization have been around
and for decades really. And
they're just sort of making
it really easy to use
as a developer. And I
think even now, you know,
five years and that I
think that point still gets,
gets missed, especially with people
who are, are joining the
conversation now and have missed
the historical context. So I'm
always happy to talk in
that kind of explain the
history. Well, so Docker is
five years old, but Linux
containers came out like nine
years ago, but open VZ
came, which was a virtualization
technology for the next was
like 13 years ago. But
all of this is still
even older than that. Yeah.
Yeah. The it's always the
same stuff, kind of repackaged
and repurposed. And I think
containerization and in what we
call a container is sort
of the culmination of quite
a few principles or few
patterns that have existed in
computing for a long time.
Maybe they haven't been super
widespread or very well supported
things like C groups made
things a lot easier. Namespaces
et cetera. Those like very
building blocks of containers. They
often go kind of under
the radar because they're wrapped
in this nice, like whale
blue whale that is easy
to interact with. And it's
really easy to focus on
the blue whale. And you
know, it doesn't matter if
I'm using Docker every day.
If I understand like what
happened 15 years ago or
how containers were had evolved
over time, I think, and
that's fine. I think it's,
I think it's always interesting
though, to kind of look
back and see the patterns
that tend to repeat themselves
over time. I'm very interested
in those. So Hey friends,
this is Scott, you know,
listening to podcasts is a
great way to keep up
to date on technology since
we're always learning as software
people. And you can also
find a job by listening
to a podcast. If you
check out our new sponsor
hired.com, that's H I R
E d.com/hansel minutes on hire.com.
Software engineers can get interview
requests from companies that want
to hire you. Each offer
will have the salary and
the equity upfront. You can
view those interview requests and,
you know, accept project, change
the offer before even talking
to a company. It's a
great way to find out
what's out there and maybe
make a move they're working
with over 6,000 companies from
startups to large companies from
14 major tech hubs throughout
North America and Europe. What's
great about this is it's
totally free for software engineers.
And if you get a
job through hire.com, that'll ordinarily
give you a $300. Thank
you bonus. But if you
use our special link, they'll
double that bonus. So you
will actually get paid $600
when you accept that job.
Now, if you're not looking
for a job, but you
know, someone who is refer
them to hire.com/hansel minutes, and
they'll give you a lead
bonus, a $1,337 bonus when
they accept a job. So
check them out at hired.com/hansel
minutes. So for someone who
is trying to find that
balance between what we just
talked about, which is you
don't have to learn everything
and here's a whole list
of words. And now you
can forget all of those
and just use Docker. And
on the other hand, though,
all the cool historical context
and the where containers came
from as a concept, et
cetera, et cetera, where do
you decide when to stop?
If, if you're listening to
this podcast and you're like,
wow, they're halfway through. I'm
still not sure if I'm
supposed to use Docker or
not. What do we tell
them? If you've never used
a container before don't get
bogged down with all of
the historical context. It's like,
if you think that you
might be interested in cake,
I wouldn't recommend that you
go to the store and
like, look at the history
of flower and think about
all the different kinds of
sugar that you want. I
would just recommend going to
the bakery and picking out
something that looks good and
trying it first. Then when
you want to make changes
to maybe like, Oh, maybe
that's a buttercream. I don't
really care for it. And
I want to have Italian
buttercream and stuff. Then I
think that's the time to,
to dig a bit deeper,
a little bit underneath the
surface. But if you're happy
with that cupcake then, and
it's working for you, like
we're all humans. We have
only, we have limited time.
We have limited keystrokes. There's
probably something else that you
could, you could do if
it's not interesting to you
don't feel pressured to dig
into the nitty gritty details.
So what's all this talk
of container Wars though. Like,
did, is, is there a
war? Did we win? Sure.
I think we won. I
could be wrong. I don't
feel like I had lost.
I think that's good. So
I think there, so maybe
here, here's a little bit
of history lesson. So Docker
is, I would say the
market leader or like market
share leader for sure on
containers. And I think that's,
they're not the only container
runtime, I think right now
it's a, a solid container
product. And that's what maybe
an important distinction is like
Docker inc is a corporation
that has a product. And
that product is there's a
lot of internal stuff. Like
the container runtime that goes
into Docker, but there are
other container runtimes out there.
And I think this must've
been two or three years
ago, but Coro S and
it still exists today, but
Coriolis came out with rocket,
our KT unsure what the
correct pronunciation is. And I
think I've never asked. So
I'll just keep, keep saying
rocket, maybe it's I don't
know. But they, they came
up with their container runtime
to sort of not, I
wouldn't say compete with Docker
maybe in some ways, but
to sort of complete the
story perhaps, or just offer
an alternative. So that was
sort of the start of
this, like, Oh, you know,
I feel like there's, there's
like militant forking on GitHub
of like, we're forking this
repo and like, we're going
to build something else. And
in a lot of ways,
rocket felt like that. It
was like, Oh wow. You
know, everyone, the community had
really gotten behind Docker. And
then now there's this thing
that's like causing some, some
turbulence in the container space.
So that's sort of where
we started with the container
Wars. And I think now
when we look at the
landscape around us, it's really
clear that we've, we've evolved
to the orchestration Wars and
that's where most people spend
their energy is, did Kubernetes
with swarm, like who's the
winner. And Okay. So let
me see if I understand
this then. So Coro S
is this lightweight distro built
around containers that was done
by the chorus folks? And
they did it, they did
rocket built on top of
our KT or rocket, but
this is all sitting on
Linux containers though. Right. You'd
need C groups and you
need all the Linux, these
stuff anyway. Right. So this
is just like not to
be, I use this analogy
a lot. There's a whole,
you know, VHS versus Betamax.
Like it's still a cassette
tape. It's got like a
magnetic spool inside. Yeah. Yeah.
So they're not Mentally different,
not fundamentally different. There's like
some distinctions. And I actually,
you know, it's so funny
like this, this, this rocket
versus Docker, I think it
took up so much of
my, like bandwidth at that
time, you know, it was
like the most important thing.
And I'm thinking back right
now and I think, wow,
what even were we so
mad about? I can't even
particularly remember the specifics, but,
but yeah. So Docker used
to be based on Linux
containers. LXC if, so, if
you haven't heard the term
LXE, that's like the, the
Linux container and Docker just
built on top of LXE
and use the, their basic
functionality of containers and added
some stuff on top of
it. And it was like,
okay, we're, we're putting the
nice, like the frosting on
it and, and making it
easier for developers to use,
but you're right. A lot
of the stuff like at
the LXE level was shared,
it was a couple, I
would say two years after
Docker started that they actually
got rid of LXE and
they started running on their
own runtime. So that was
also, yeah. So that's like,
when we talk about the
container Wars, a lot of
what that are, you know,
what that actually means. It's
not like Docker necessarily. It's
like the container runtime Wars,
like is versus lift container
and like what container runtime
are we using? But what's
interesting. And I think when
we did beyond containers with
Tracy, a couple months back,
we touched on this as
well, about how, you know,
things that we interact with
often. And that seems to
be the most important thing.
It's like, just give it
maybe six months or a
year. And, and that little
piece of tech becomes abstracted
away from us. And I
think that's really what happens.
Like no one thinks about
if they start up a
container, what runtime it's using,
or like, if it's using
Aleksi or something else, what
you're focusing on. No, I
just needed it to work
and I need, cause we're
betting our companies on this
technology. Right. I just want
it to work. Yeah, exactly.
So, and we've seen that.
I mean, we've seen that
commoditization not, and it's not
just in tech, it's like
everything. I mean, when you
buy an  instance on
AWS, like you're getting electricity,
but you don't, you don't
think about like, Oh, I
have to pay the electric
bill for the data center.
Electricity is a commodity and
it just like, it comes
with it. When you, when
you pay for a, you
know, con I don't know,
running, if you run a
container on AWS, or if
you are using a hosted
or managed orchestration service, you're
getting a container on time,
that's packaged in it. You
just don't necessarily see it
or think about it. So
I think so, Sorry, help
me understand though, move it
up, move it up to
orchestration though. Then are we
going to not think about
that? Like, will I, is
there a world where I
don't even think the Kubernetes
exists? I think so. And
I think that world is,
I think that's, I think
the natural progression is maybe
a bit paused because we
are as an industry, just
like so captivated by Kubernetes.
And we think it's the
most amazing thing ever and
can't imagine our lives without
it. So I think that's
gonna S it's stalling a
bit the commoditization, but I
think we're, I think we're
going to get there where
if you're what you really
want is you want an
application that's running, that's distributed
and highly available. Like, that's
the thing that we're going
after here. So whether that's
Kubernetes or like something else
it as a developer, it's
probably not the most relevant
thing to you. If you
are, of course, like a
reliability engineer, someone who is
on call or supporting the
systems like then, then the
question's a little bit different
and maybe it is more
important, but I think it
will be a year until
we have other patterns that
sort of wrap Kubernetes and
maybe abstract Kubernetes away. I
think people will start thinking
about, like, I don't think
people will be talking about
pods or, you know, parts
of the Kubernetes syntax, like
their, their yamble declarations deployment
declarations necessarily anymore. I think
it's going to be a,
maybe one level up, like
just generally here's my application.
And then there needs to
be some service that takes
that application and says, okay,
well, I'm going to translate
that into this thing so
it can run on Kubernetes,
but it could run somewhere
else. Well, now you've got,
and then you've got Istio
to sit on top of
Kubernetes to connect microservices. We
just rearranging deck chairs on
the Titanic and we're just
going to go and squish
it all together. And like,
someone's going to write some
thing that takes Istio plus
Kubernetes plus Docker, and turns
it all into a monolith
again. Yeah. I'm wait. I'm
ready. I'm ready for it.
I mean like how, how
distributed this is the thing
I have to get before.
It's just like, come on.
Can we just write like
a big old C application?
Yeah, Yeah. You know, what's
so interesting. And I guess
this is not totally related
to microservices and containers, but
you know, I work in
the CACD world. So I'm
really interested in automation. I
see a lot of companies
source. Like I don't see
their source code specifically, but
I see how they organize
it. And the Monarch rainbow
is getting a lot of
traction now. So if you,
if you've not heard the
term before, so we have,
we have microservices, which is
this architectural abstraction of putting,
you know, business logic in
little chunks and making them,
you know, available via API
and having all these little
services. And usually it's that
one service corresponds to one
repo on GitHub or whatever
your SEM provider is. But
it's really hard then when
you're trying to automate and
actually like run stuff in
production to have like hundred
repos in your, your source
code management tool. So what
a lot of companies have
done and actually some, some
quite prominent ones are, they
just like said, no, everything's
just in a folder. It's
just been one repo. So
now we're seeing like, I
mean, everything's a pendulum we
swing one way and then,
you know, it's like, Oh,
we gotta, gotta start swinging
the other way, but I'm
definitely seeing some movement in
that, that other direction we're
seeing the, you know, monolith
first, the monolith first, first
method that Martin follower wrote
about. I think it's not
even really that recent. I
think it was like a
year ago when he wrote
that blog post that I,
I find to be very
captivating. And I share it
often with people who are
struggling with microservices. But I
think, you know, this, I
think there's this, this representation
of the world where everyone's
using containers and everyone has
everything in microservices and everyone's
using Kubernetes. And if you're
not doing it, you're too
late. I think that's just
really not. And if you're
listening to this podcast and
you're not using containers and
you feel bad about it,
please, don't I care about
you. I don't think that
you're doing anything wrong. Don't
feel bad. I think in
reality, it's, it's something, I
think the last statistic I
read and I can't remember
the source of it all,
I'll rack my brain and
try to find it. It
was something like 10% of
developers or it professionals are
actually using containers in production.
I think that's really different
from the story that we're
told or the perception. Maybe
I appreciate that because it's
overwhelming, right? Like even just
now people are listening and
they're like, okay, Docker, Kubernetes,
and sits on top of
that. Istio sits on top
of that. And then Istio
uses Envoy and mixer and
pilot and Citadel. And it's
just like, now, now, now,
now, now, yeah. I just
want to make hello world
scale. You know, that's all
I really wanted to do.
You know, now I've got
containerized distributed, hello world. And
then while we are recording
this podcast, I don't know
if you know about this,
but Google cloud just announced
K native, like 20 minutes
ago, which is serverless Google
cloud on top of Kubernetes
on Google cloud. Like they're
announcing it. They're in the
process of announcing it like
this moment, you know, and
again, serverless then what's so
funny about serverless. Is it
aims to hide it? All
right. Like that's the whole
idea of serverless is like
build all this stuff, all
these nouns and that we're
going to hide everything and
pretend it doesn't exist. And
we're going to put a
slider bar in front of
it. And then we're going
to attach that slider bar
to your credit card. And
that's serverless. That's wild. It
is. I mean, there's a
new shiny object every day,
I think it'll but yeah.
I mean, your point, your
point I think is, is
SU really solid it's, it's
that it's, it's overwhelming and
now we're just, we're combining
a bunch of stuff together
and it's really hard to
know what to pay attention
to. What's going to stick
like is yeah. Is serverless
going to stick? Are containers
going to stick? I think
the answer we've found to
be yes, but like, but
maybe no, because you know,
you, if you're using a
serverless architecture, some serverless service
serverless as a service or
functions as a service, I
guess is a good way
to talk about it. It
could be running on Kubernetes.
Like it could be running
on, I don't know, a
mainframe in your parents' basement.
I think the point is
like, you shouldn't have to
care. So it's really about
what part of the problem
space you have access to,
or even want to have
access to. Like, if I'm
running, if I'm, if I'm
teaching a course on rails
development and I have a
bunch of students that are
running their app on Heroku,
I don't care. And they
shouldn't care what Heroku is
using under the covers to,
to make that possible for
them to enable them to
do that. If I'm a
site reliability engineer at Heroku,
obviously I have a different
opinion about it. I think
it's just really all about
what's relevant to you. What
are you trying to accomplish?
What's the right match for
what you're trying to accomplish.
And I think it's, it's
hard as a, as a
technologist to not get really
distracted and kind of focus
on what's ahead of you.
I'm certainly guilty of it.
I like the cool new,
new stuff. I get really
fixated on like minutiae of
projects. And I dig really
deep into them for my
own personal enjoyment, but, but
I try, you know, it's,
it's hard to stay focused,
but it is important. Otherwise
it's just, you know, you
feel overwhelmed and then you
go into a shame spiral
about not using all the
stuff that you should be
using. Well, in the short
term, though, we know that
we can use containers and
we can use Docker and
we can probably feel free
to pick a container orchestrator
that makes us happy, makes
our company happy. And we
can always swap it out
for another one in the
future. Yeah. I think the
one thing that's really great
about the container ecosystem in
general is that gee, you
know, generally speaking, and of
course there are exceptions to
this, but pretty much everything
that you do has a,
an interface that matches another
tool. So for example, if
you're using Kubernetes and you
have a deployment and you
have, you know, services that
you're declaring, you're exposing a
port you're mounting volumes, all
of those things map to
something else like this, the
equivalent, the functional equivalent in
a different orchestration tool, because
more or less those tools
are solving the same problem.
The problem set is pretty
well defined. They just have
different implementations of the solution.
So you can move kind
of easily back and forth
if you, if you need
to. It's the same goes
for, for many of the
components that are, are using
common interfaces. So swapping out
a storage plugin, for example,
networking interface, or networking, plugins,
et cetera, those things have
commonly defined interfaces. So the,
the vendor lock in is
not so not so scary
in the container world. Cool.
Well, I appreciate you taking
the time to help me
get my head around all
of this, because it's overwhelming
to me, Like we had
just like a therapy session
for everyone who feels overwhelmed
by the state of containers.
Like we should put some
like suiting music behind this
whole podcast. That is a
good idea. We should call
it though. This was, this
was container catharsis is the
title. Yeah. It's like, it
will be okay if you
feel overwhelmed. That's fine. Everyone
is overwhelmed. I'm overwhelmed. And
I've been, I've been in
the container world for five
years already. So I can
just imagine what someone was
starting out. Must feel like
it's okay. It'll be fine.
Cool. Well, people can check
you out and your product
at cloud B's B E
s.com and learn about a
continuous software and delivery and
container, you know, container smarts,
dev ops, and Jenkins and
all those great things. And
they can follow you on
Twitter as well. I'll put
links in the show notes.
Thanks so much for chatting
with me today. Thanks so
much, Scott. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and we'll see you again.
Next .